Title: 2005 CIA Report on Coronavirus Pandemic Discovered
Subtitle:
Author: Lyubov Stepushova
Date: 17 MAR 2020

In social networks and small Western publications, a retelling of the 2005 CIA report appeared on the subject “What will the world be like in 2020”. There, with striking accuracy, the current scenario for the development of the COVID19 pandemic is described.

The report was written in September 2005 and was voiced by the Frenchman Alexander Adler in his book “The New CIA Report on What the World Will Be in 2020” . The book was published in Western countries in 2005 - 2009.

The department, as usual, tried to predict the future of the world for fifteen to twenty years in advance. The prospects for a global pandemic are surprisingly true. In a chapter entitled “A Possible Outbreak of a Global Pandemic,” CIA experts described a scenario very close to COVID-19.

They foresaw "the emergence of a new, highly contagious, virulent respiratory disease in humans for which there is no adequate treatment and which could cause a global pandemic ."

“The emergence of a pandemic depends on the natural genetic mutation, on the recombination of viral strains already in circulation, or on the emergence of a new pathogenic factor in the human population. Highly pathogenic avian influenza strains such as H5N1 are likely candidates for this type of transformation, but other pathogens, such as the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and some influenza strains will have the same properties, "the Portuguese newspaper quoted Visao as saying.

No one will be ready for a pandemic
You can read further: “The country of origin probably will not have adequate means of detection, so it will take a long time to detect the disease. Laboratories will need weeks to get the final results confirming the existence of the disease, which could develop into a pandemic.”

A global infection scenario is also described:
“Despite restrictions on international movement, travelers with few or no symptoms can carry the virus to other continents. There will be more and more patients, and new cases will appear every month.”

The report predicts areas and circumstances of the emergence of new viruses:
"If a pandemic breaks out, it will undoubtedly begin in a densely populated area in which people live in close proximity to animals. There are such areas in China and Southeast Asia, where people live in contact with livestock."

In the worst case, according to a CIA report, " from ten to several hundred million Westerners will become infected with this disease , and the number of deaths will amount to tens of millions."

In the rest of the world, there will be a degradation of vital infrastructure, there will be economic losses on a global scale , about one third of the population will go through the disease.

The result is clear: tensions and conflicts
“If this disease appears by 2020, internal and cross-border tensions and conflicts will spread. Countries with insufficient capabilities will seek to control population movements in order to avoid infection or to maintain access to natural resources, ” the report concludes.

As reported by Pravda.Ru, an official spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said that the US military brought the COVID-19 virus to Wuhan.

In the scientific journal Nature Medicine for 2015, they found an article stating that American scientists artificially created a hybrid version of coronavirus in different animals, for example, bats. It is further described that back in 2013 they were studying the possibility of transmitting this virus to humans.

 On Monday, the United States reported that they created an experimental coronavirus vaccine and began testing it. It is natural to assume who will be the beneficiary of the huge profits from its sale.

Читайте больше на https://www.pravda.ru/world/1481589-cia_coronavirus/
