Title: EXPLOSIVE REPORT: Rep. Adam Schiff Linked to Prominent Ukrainian Arms Dealer!
Subtitle:
Author: Joe Hoft
Date: 29 Sep 2019

Democrat Rep. Adam Schiff is connected to a Ukrainian arms dealer. Is this why he’s willing to lie in front of the nation when accusing President Trump of crimes?

Adam Schiff is arguably the biggest liar in Congress…. ever.  He now leads the House Intelligence Committee and this past week oversaw the Intel Committee where he attempted to align President Trump with some ‘trumped’ up allegations concerning his phone call with the President of the Ukraine.  Schiff lied in his opening remarks and claimed numerous falsehoods about the President’s call in spite of the transcript being provided the day before.

His entire description of the President’s call was a lie – we have the transcript and this was not in it!

President Trump rightly called for Schiff’s removal from the Intelligence Committee after this dishonest performance –

Now we know why Schiff is lying – he’s connected with a Ukrainian Arms Dealer!
In 2013 Ukrainian Igor Pasternak held two different fund raisers for Schiff asking for contributions between $1,000 and $2,500 –

Pasternack has also been connected to George Soros –

Pasternak was reportedly in and around the Ukraine at the same time that Vice President Joe Biden had his son appointed to the Board of the Ukraine’s largest oil and gas producer –

Pasternak, who was raised and educated in Ukraine before immigrating to the United States, is a passionate promoter of Ukrainian culture and business. He has been active in both Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. to support increased bilateral ties between the two countries and has been especially active building awareness of Ukraine’s strategic economic importance among Members of Congress. Since political protests broke out across Ukraine in late 2013, Pasternak has worked to personally inform and educate Members of Congress about the geostrategic importance of Ukraine to European and US security.

In late February 2014, during the final hours of the Yanukovych Presidency, Pasternak travelled to Kyiv for diplomatic reasons in response to the outbreak of violence that had started less than 48 hours earlier, and to support peaceful transitions amid the rapid changes now taking place across Ukraine.

Pasternak is an arms dealer.  He has sold arms in places like Syria –

There is much more to this Ukrainian Arms Dealer that can be found at this link

Schiff was reportedly scheduled to be in the Ukraine just last month with the Atlantic Counsel.

Adam Schiff’s staffer made the trip.

https://twitter.com/sewwutnow/status/1177766806070517760

This is also the same time that Schiff tweeted that information on the Ukraine –

The earlier tweet was at the exact same time Schiff was reportedly scheduled to be in the Ukraine –

What the hell is going on with Shifty Lying Schiff and his Ukraine Arms Dealer – Is Schiff being paid off?  Is this why he is willing to lie on national TV about President Trump’s action in the Ukraine?
Hat tip Kevin O. and Yaacov Apelbaum
