Title: Schiff Claims He Does Not Know Who the Whistleblower Is During Impeachment Hearing
Author: Bradley Cortright
Date: Nov. 13th, 2019

The first open House Intelligence Committee hearings in the impeachment probe into President Donald Trump began with Republican lawmakers requesting a chance to question the whistleblower who filed the complaint that led to the impeachment inquiry.

Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) asked Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) when they would get a chance to question the whistleblower, pointing out that Schiff and members of his staff communicated with the whistleblower before the individual filed a complaint with the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.

“Of the 435 members of Congress, you are the only member who knows who that individual is. And your staff is the only staff of any member of Congress who has had a chance to talk with that individual. We like that opportunity. When might that happen in this proceeding today?”

Schiff flatly denied Jordan’s claim, “First, as the gentleman knows, that’s a false statement: I do not know the identity of the whistleblower.”

Watch the exchange below:

The Washington Post:
"Jordan: Of the 435 members of Congress, you are the only member who knows [who the whistleblower is].
Schiff: First, as the gentleman knows, that's a false statement: I do not know the identity of the whistleblower."

Schiff has repeatedly denied that he knows the identity of the whistleblower, although The Washington Post’s fact-checker called his comments that he did not communicate with the whistleblower “flat-out false,” as IJR has previously reported.

During a September 17 interview on MSNBC, Schiff said, “We have not spoken directly with the whistleblower.” The California congressman later claimed he wasn’t sure that the whistleblower who contacted his office was the same individual who filed the complaint.

But, the Post’s fact-checker hit Schiff with four Pinocchios, saying, “The explanation that Schiff was not sure it was the same whistleblower especially strains credulity.”

Republican lawmakers called out Schiff on Twitter for repeating his claim during the hearings.

Rep. Jim Jordan:
".@RepAdamSchiff is the ONLY member of Congress who knows the identity of the “Whistleblower” who started this entire sham" 
Analysis | Schiff’s false claim his committee had not spoken to the whistleblower
The lawmaker heading the impeachment inquiry misled reporters about his committee's contacts with the whistleblower before the complaint was filed.

Mark Meadows:
"Reminder: the Chairman was caught misleading a reporter about communication with the whistleblower, barely four weeks ago: 
Kyle Cheney: 
"SCHIFF: "I do not know the identity of the whistleblower."""

Rep. Paul Gosar, DDS:
"In response to @Jim_Jordan, Adam Schiff claims he doesn't know the identity of the whistleblower. If he doesn't know their identity, how will he prevent them from being named?"

The House Republican Conference’s Twitter account shared the Times’ story that said Schiff’s office communicated with the whistleblower prior to the complaint.