Title: T.I. Finally Explains Why He Looked Angry And Disgusted In This Photo With Tiny Harris Sitting By Him While In Church
Subtitle:
Author: Mel Walker
Date: 28 SEP 2019

While Kanye West’s Sunday Service has been a great success since the rapper started the tradition; it looks like his reputation might get marred soon, as fellow rapper T.I. has come out with some shocking accusations related to pastors participating in the event.

According to T.I., pastor Jamal Bryant has been trying to exploit the situation created by Kanye, attempting to take the money of various wealthy guests attending the event on a regular basis.

T.I. explained that he arrived at the church to support Kanye in his endeavors. Instead, he was almost immediately targeted as a potential cash cow, something which left him with a very unpleasant impression of the whole experience.

He added that Bryant took it upon himself to increase the offering, and changed the agenda completely at some point, trying to extort a lot of money out of T.I. and apparently other prominent figures at the event.

In the end, T.I. went as far as to say that he was disappointed for taking his time to attend, as his interaction with the pastor ruined the whole performance delivered by Kanye for him.

T.I.P., who was accompanied by his wife, Tiny Harris, to the religious event said: “It’s not that I have a thing against pastors or against preachers so-to-speak. It’s just I’ve been raised in the trenches, and I was taught to peep game. You ain’t finna run no game on me. I will not be extorted. I felt like I shouldn’t have come.”

Bryant has attempted to defend himself, claiming that he was not trying to grab anyone’s money –– but he did expect black people to stand up for each other, and even took a jab at the podcast by T.I., referencing it by name in his statement.

He finished his post by stating he was more interested in a person’s life than their life savings.

He said: “We have echoed the same sentiments on many issues down through the years and was energized by the partnership. I was awakened to your clip this morning and felt compelled to lend context. To have both of you in the church was meaningful for many reasons. This is the largest demographic of blacks who don’t buy into organized religion in our history and in large measure because of reasons you have illuminated. To not give redress would be an assault to the body of Christ when I believe I am an ambassador as the two of you are for your field.”

He went on to say: “I don’t want Sunday to be used as further ammunition as to why people don’t go to church without them knowing at this same church we gave 5000 pairs of new back to school shoes to kids of #Atlanta, or that we spearheaded 9 million campaign to support @bennett_college , or that we bailed out nonviolent offenders or that we partnered with @delta to send 4 cargo to #Bahamas for hurricane release or that we’ve partnered with @_hamptonu to place 95 displaced students or that we fed the furloughed workers for two weeks while the government was shut down or that we went into housing projects to feed kids of #dekalb county during spring break.”

Who is wrong in this situation?
